1. Explain the differences between a data lake, a data warehouse, and a lakehouse. Describe the workloads each is best suited for and the tradeoffs involved.

Data Warehouses are organized, central locations for data to preside in, specifically for structured data stored in relational database tables (SQL). These solutions are great when you need one singular source for analytical solutions or business-related questions, as well as making it easy for users to indentify necessary data and enforce data integrity and audit testing. However, data warehouses do not make it easy to store unstructured or semi-structured data sources such as images, video, or long-form text documents and require all data be cleaned before being loaded in. This means that the compute and storage required for maintianing a Data Warehouse can be costly.

A Data Lake is next as it takes the opposite approach. Here, it acts as a pool/dump for all forms of data, including structured, semi-structured, and unstructured. This is because it doesn't require cleaning steps or a relational schema be applied to its contents before it is uploaded. This keeps both storage and compute requirements low, thus creating an optimal location for data feeds with huge volumes (ex: stock trades, point of sale system feeds) and for Machine Learning and AI implementations to pull from. However, the way data is stored in Data Lakes makes it difficult to enforce any data integrity or audit tests in the environment, and often requires extra documentation and solutions to organize and maintain the environment. Plus, business-centered or analytical solutions would have a much more difficult time answering questions reliably pulling data directly from the lake as opposed to a warehouse, which is both more organized and version-controllable.

A Data Lakehouse meets our two solutions in the middle by taking the best of both words and applying them into a single, multiple-layered solution. The most simple way to look at it in my opinion is in 3 layers. First, at the very bottom, we have a storage pool, similar to a Data Lake. Here, a Data Lakehouse can ingest the same forms of data that a data lake can (structured, semi-structured, unstructured) while allowing the users to determine if and how a schema or cleaning rules are applied. Data can then be applied to different tables/schema for a data warehouse-like experience where BI, ML, and other analytical tools and safely, consistently tie into cleaned, verifiable sources. Finally, there's the Metadata layer. This layer sits on top of each storage piece in the lakehouse (both the storage pool and organized end-user tables), breaking up the lakehouse's stored contents into immuatable individual storage files that document the current system state, all historical changes, and individual file limits. This partitioning allows for faster querying and for integration with Streamming technqiues, which allows data flows to be ingested, validated, and organized into relational locations in real-time. This solution is great for centralizing warehousing and lake processes that can service a wide variety of BI, AI, ML, and analytics needs. However, these systems are quite complex and can be difficult to set up and maintain, espcially in the metadata layer, thus creating a somewhat heavy learning curve with them. In simpler, lighter solutions, it's better to stick with existing infrastructure rather than taking the time to set up the lakehouse. But, long term for more handling multiple and more extensive projects, the value of the lakehouse makes it worth the tech debt associated with it.

2. Explain serverless architecture, touching on both the advantages and disadvantages associated with it.

Serverless architecture is an approach where a user is only responsible for their deployed service/app/code/etc. in a cloud-based platform and does not maintain the employed architecture. This means that the user doesn't worry about the enviornment, OS updates, or hardware specifics. This especially nice for the developers/owners as they can strictly worry and maintain the code and applicaiton itself rather than the entire environment. It is also can provide automatic resource scaling as more demand is required as compute is charged typically per use rather than being resource-based. However, this set-up makes it difficult when optimizing for and troubleshooting issues related to hardware. In addition, costs can raise pretty dramatically if the deployed solution is one with high usage and concurrent user rates. Also, by the nature of the architecture, your solution becomes very reliant to the vendor you chosen, making it difficult as time goes on to be able to off-board or switch to a different provider. 

3.  Describe modern MLOps and how organizations should approach it from a tooling and systems perspective.
MLOps has grown from just traditional Machine Learning and Deep Learning models to also LLMs and similar non-determinisitc AI solutions. This just means that not only do we care about the data delivery and maintence associated with these solutions, but also the about the validation and observability of these new, non-deterministic AI Solutions. Spefically, tools need to be available for Data professionals to track the models' hallucinations, groundedness, relevancy, and overall accuracy (i.e., if/why the model is incorrect). New technical solutions and model use cases will continue to pop up, even in this current climate of rising compute costs and tighter token restrictions, so any tool or systemmic approach should remain focused on provided the most flexible, low-latency, cost-and-token efficent options. 